Knuth started to write a book about compiler design in 1962, and soon realized that the scope of the book needed to be much larger. In June 1965, Knuth finished the first draft of what was originally planned to be a single volume of twelve chapters. His hand written first draft manuscript completed in 1966 was 3,000 pages long: he had assumed that about five hand written pages would translate into one printed page, but his publisher said instead that about hand-written pages translated to one printed page. This meant the book would be approximately 2,000 pages in length. The publisher was nervous about accepting such a project from a graduate student. At this point, Knuth received support from Richard S. Varga, who was the scientific advisor to the publisher. Varga was visiting Olga Taussky-Todd and John Todd at Caltech. With Varga's enthusiastic endorsement, the publisher accepted Knuth's expanded plans. In its expanded version, the book would be published in seven volumes, each with just one or two chapters. Due to the growth in the material, the plan for Volume 4 has since expanded to include Volumes 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D, and possibly more. Knuth was awarded the 1974 Turing Award for his major contributions to the analysis of algorithms, and in particular for his contributions to the art of computer programming through his well-known books in a continuous series by this title.  American Scientist has included this work among 100 or so Books that shaped a Century of Science, referring to the twentieth century, and within the computer science community it is regarded as the first and still the best comprehensive treatment of its subject. Covers of the third edition of Volume 1 quote Bill Gates as saying, If you think you're a really good programmer... read Knuth's Art of Computer Programming... You should definitely send me a resume if you can read the whole thing. The New York Times referred to it as the profession's defining treatise. Mathematical induction is a form of direct proof, usually done in two steps. When trying to prove a given statement for a set of natural numbers, the first step, known as the base case, is to prove the given statement for the first natural number. The second step, known as the inductive step, is to prove that, if the statement is assumed to be true for any one natural number, then it must be true for the next natural number as well. Having proved these two steps, the rule of inference establishes the statement to be true for all natural numbers. In common terminology, using the stated approach is referred to as using the Principle of mathematical induction. The method can be extended to prove statements about more general well-founded structures, such as trees, this generalization, known as structural induction, is used in mathematical logic and computer science. Mathematical induction in this extended sense is closely related to recursion. Mathematical induction, in some form, is the foundation of all correctness proofs for computer programs. Although its name may suggest otherwise, mathematical induction should not be misconstrued as a form of inductive reasoning also see Problem of induction. Mathematical induction is an inference rule used in proofs. In mathematics, proofs including those using mathematical induction are examples of deductive reasoning, and inductive reasoning is excluded from proofs. None of these ancient mathematicians, however, explicitly stated the inductive hypothesis. Another similar case contrary to what Vacca has written, as Freudenthal carefully showed was that of Francesco Maurolico in his Arithmeticorum libri duo 1575, who used the technique to prove that the sum of the first n odd integers is n. The first explicit formulation of the principle of induction was given by Pascal in his Traite du triangle arithmetique 1665. Another Frenchman, Fermat, made ample use of a related principle, indirect proof by infinite descent. The inductive hypothesis was also employed by the Swiss Jakob Bernoulli, and from then on it became more or less well known. The modern rigorous and systematic.